Dinner At Eight
By Tommy Mendez


I died.
And much to my surprise,
I went straight to heaven
and became an angel.

God was throwing a banquet to celebrate his zillionth anniversary, 
...as God.

He needed a new Chef, with fresh ideas,
and since I was dead already,
they bent a few rules.
	
Ok,
alot of rules.

Saint Peter, showed me to the kitchen
which was beyond state of the art.
The always eager and energetic staff had been trained by the best,
well the most pious,
of the best Chef’s who had ever lived.
Nothing was ever out of stock or out of season.

I was in heaven!

Dinner was at eight.

I made a few adjustments to the menu,
organized my Sous Chefs,
and set the staff to work.

The salads and desserts were plated and stacked into silver rolling carts.
Bouquetieres were stuffed with perfectly blanched vegetables.
Duchess potatoes were piped into swirling peaks.
Every detail of every garnish was meticulously seen to.

We fired the entrees into the ovens.

Only one last thing was left to be done,
one final touch.

I had to prepare the sauce.
The crowning glory which would meld all of the elements on the plate 
into a meal
fit for a God.

And that’s when the problem occurred.

You see,
this kitchen had everything,
doubled jacketed steam kettles,
fryers,
ovens,
grills and stockpots,
but I couldn’t find a simple saucepan anywhere.

The waiters began serving the salads.

I was getting frustrated and nervous.
Angel apprentices scurried about trying to please their Chef.
They brought me food mills, aspic molds, strainers and graters and gadgets galore.
None of which I needed.

The second glass of wine was poured and the speaker began his speech.

Escoffier poked his head in
offering his 48 hour recipe for the perfect demi-glaze.
And was quickly dismissed.

I stood spinning in the middle of Heaven’s kitchen.

“Can’t anybody bring me a goddamn three quart saucepan?”

And voosh!

In a flash of fire and brimstone,
Lucifer appeared.

In one hand he held a stainless steel, heavy bottomed saucepan
and a perfect piano wire whip.

And in the other hand....
a contract for my soul.

The mint for the dessert garnish was wilting.
The entrees were about to come out of the ovens.

“What’s it going to be Chefy Boy?
You know the Devil has to eat too.”

Later that night
I sat on a prep table in the darkened, immaculately cleaned kitchen
eating my dinner and sipping a cognac twice my age.

I wrapped my wings around me like a security blanket.

In the end,
I’d thrown a large roasting pan on one of the flat-top grills
and poured melted butter directly underneath it.
An old fry-cooks’s trick for conducting heat quickly to a large surface.

I made the sauce in about two and a half minutes
and of course,
it played to rave reviews.

I finished my chili cheese burger and soggy french fries,
hung my apron on a peg in Heaven’s kitchen
and went to find out where angels go to relax.

You know it’s really not that much different here than it is on earth.

Shit’s always gonna happen.

But if you trust in yourself,
ignore everything else.

Dinner will always be served at eight.
